README.md, before:

## Routes

__Table 1.__ Summary of routes

Verb | Endpoint | Controller | Method | Description
---|---|---|---|---
POST | /newuser | user | registerUser | Creates new user in database
POST | /login | user | loginSuccess | Authenticates email and password, returns JWT if successful

# Packages used

## In production
- Express: a fast unopinionated, minimalist framework for node. Express is the web server within our application, with the role of routing incoming HTTP requests and using middleware to modify those requests before they arrive at the controllers.
- dotenv: allows variables declared in an environment (.env) file to be read. This is important because the application may connect to a different database, or be hosted on a different port depending on environments. 
- jsonwebtoken: creates a json web token (JWT) by hashing information related to the user (in our case we used the document id from MongoDB) and a secret string we save in our .env file. JWTs are a way to securely transmit information between parties as a JSON object. The information can be verified because it is digitally signed.
- mongoose: a MongoDB object modeling tool designed to work in asychronous environments. Allows the creation of schemas to control the information being written to the database, and the creation of models with methods to create, read, update, or delete documents in the relevant collection.
- mongoose-bcrypt: a mongoose plugin to encrypt information being saved into MongoDB and verify that incoming data is the same as the encrypted version. Used in this application to encrypt passwords when users register, and verify that passwords when the user attempts to login is correct. 
- Passport: express-compatible authentication middleware for Node.js. Passport authenticates requests using strategies which are defined in the two packages below and allows access to the route protected by the middleware if authentication succeeds, or returning a 400-series status code if authentication fails.
- passport-local: integrates into passport to authenticate users with a username and password. In this application, the email a user provides when they log in is used to find the corresponding document in the users collection. If there is no user or the password they provide fails verification, the passport middleware prevents the user from accessing the route.
- passport-jwt: integrates into passport to authenticate users with JSON web tokens. 

## In development
- nodemon: automatically restarts the node application when file changes are detected. Helpful in development because of the frequent file changes which we want to be able to observe the effect of immediately. Not used in production because we do not expect to be making frequent changes to code in the production environment.
- forever: automatically restarts the node application if it crashes. Helpful in development because of the frequent file changes with errors which will cause the application to crash. Without the forever package, the application would need to be started by typing into the command line after every crash.
- mocha: a testing framework developed specifically for Node applications. Mocha was chosen as the testing framework over Jest because the Mongoose documents warn against using Jest, and instead strongly recommend Mocha. A testing framework makes it easier to write tests due to the pre-built syntax and presentation of results in the terminal. Testing functions by comparing the results of our code with an expected result. When actual and expected results differ, the test fails and we are informed of what was returned verrsus what was expected.
- chai: an assertion library often paired with mocha. Assertions allow us to use the pre-built 'assert', 'expect', or 'should' functions to test the results of our code against expectations. 
- supertest: a module allowing testing of HTTP. Without supertest, we would need to use axios to send HTTP requests to our endpoints. The problem with this is that if a test were to fail, we may not know whether the failure was due to the network or our code. Supertest allows us to bypass the network to test our code directly, so any failures are due to errors in the code, not network issues.

Commit message:

fixed bug where dates users were created would update

README.md, after:

## Routes

__Table 1.__ Summary of routes

Verb | Endpoint | Controller | Method | Description
---|---|---|---|---
POST | /newuser | user | registerUser | Creates new user in database
POST | /login | user | loginSuccess | Authenticates email and password, returns JWT if successful

# Testing

Testing was conducted with a combination of automated and manual tests.

## Testing in development

Testing in development was conducted using the Mocha and Chai packages. Testing of the Express app focused on the users and the files controllers. Tests can be run from the root of the project by typing into the terminal
```
npm test
```

## Testing in production



# Packages used

## In production
- Express: a fast unopinionated, minimalist framework for node. Express is the web server within our application, with the role of routing incoming HTTP requests and using middleware to modify those requests before they arrive at the controllers.
- dotenv: allows variables declared in an environment (.env) file to be read. This is important because the application may connect to a different database, or be hosted on a different port depending on environments. 
- jsonwebtoken: creates a json web token (JWT) by hashing information related to the user (in our case we used the document id from MongoDB) and a secret string we save in our .env file. JWTs are a way to securely transmit information between parties as a JSON object. The information can be verified because it is digitally signed.
- mongoose: a MongoDB object modeling tool designed to work in asychronous environments. Allows the creation of schemas to control the information being written to the database, and the creation of models with methods to create, read, update, or delete documents in the relevant collection.
- mongoose-bcrypt: a mongoose plugin to encrypt information being saved into MongoDB and verify that incoming data is the same as the encrypted version. Used in this application to encrypt passwords when users register, and verify that passwords when the user attempts to login is correct. 
- Passport: express-compatible authentication middleware for Node.js. Passport authenticates requests using strategies which are defined in the two packages below and allows access to the route protected by the middleware if authentication succeeds, or returning a 400-series status code if authentication fails.
- passport-local: integrates into passport to authenticate users with a username and password. In this application, the email a user provides when they log in is used to find the corresponding document in the users collection. If there is no user or the password they provide fails verification, the passport middleware prevents the user from accessing the route.
- passport-jwt: integrates into passport to authenticate users with JSON web tokens. 

## In development
- nodemon: automatically restarts the node application when file changes are detected. Helpful in development because of the frequent file changes which we want to be able to observe the effect of immediately. Not used in production because we do not expect to be making frequent changes to code in the production environment.
- forever: automatically restarts the node application if it crashes. Helpful in development because of the frequent file changes with errors which will cause the application to crash. Without the forever package, the application would need to be started by typing into the command line after every crash.
- mocha: a testing framework developed specifically for Node applications. Mocha was chosen as the testing framework over Jest because the Mongoose documents warn against using Jest, and instead strongly recommend Mocha. A testing framework makes it easier to write tests due to the pre-built syntax and presentation of results in the terminal. Testing functions by comparing the results of our code with an expected result. When actual and expected results differ, the test fails and we are informed of what was returned verrsus what was expected.
- chai: an assertion library often paired with mocha. Assertions allow us to use the pre-built 'assert', 'expect', or 'should' functions to test the results of our code against expectations. 
- supertest: a module allowing testing of HTTP. Without supertest, we would need to use axios to send HTTP requests to our endpoints. The problem with this is that if a test were to fail, we may not know whether the failure was due to the network or our code. Supertest allows us to bypass the network to test our code directly, so any failures are due to errors in the code, not network issues.
